good evening tonight Israel's ambassador
to the UN gillad San has called for the
resignation of the UN Secretary General
Antonio gutterz following his speech at
the meeting of the UN Security Council
in New York guz whose call for
humanitarian ceasefire said that the
October 7th attack by Hamas on Israel
did not happen in a vacuum but that the
Palestinian people have been subjected
to 56 years of suffocating occupation he
also said that the grievances of the
Palestinian people cannot justify the
appalling attacks by Hamas and those
appalling attacks cannot justify the
collective punishment of the Palestinian
people the Palestinians are divided by
Israeli land walls and fences 3 million
Palestinians who live in the occupied
West Bank live with something that looks
more like a functional government it has
Ministries ambassadors posted throughout
the world and secular politics but the
Palestinian Authority hasn't held
election for more than 15 years and the
PA also seems unable to stop the
increasing encroachment of Israeli
settlements into Palestinian land in the
West Bank regarded as illegal in
international law though disputed by
Israel and so there's a collapse of
faith in the nearest thing the
Palestinians have to a legitimate State
and with it a collapse of faith in a
diplomatic solution to the conflict with
Israel so what next for the PA enter
prime minister Muhammad chatai likely to
succeed president abas an economist and
moderate he's a strong supporter of the
two State solution but now since the
Israel Gaza war broke out and there have
been deaths in the West Bank as well as
Gaza he is also in the midst of the
crisis Amir sat down with the Prime
Minister earlier today in
rala I call for immediate ceas fire and
uh I call for immediate session of all
what is happening in Gaza and an
immediate opening of a safe passages for
uh International Aid to get in and so
that we will be also able to treat the
injured there are more than 15,000
Palestinians injured who are waiting uh
for treatment no food supplies no
electricity supplies no water supplies
so the situation is extremely
catastrophic and that continuation of
this israelian bombardment will
obviously cause more lives to be lost
clearly for a ceasefire to happen Israel
needs some kind of victory such as the
release of all hostages do you call for
the release of all hostages look the
issue is not about Victory Israel is now
in the mood of Revenge so if Israel is
in the mood of achieving Victory it's
not going to get any Victory killing
innocent people does not really lead to
a victory Israel if Israel needs to be
victorious they have to sit down with
with the Palestinians and put together a
political track so this does not repeat
itself by all means I would like to see
hostages going home every hostage every
prisoner and that this only can come
through a peaceful negotiation a
peaceful measure a peaceful solution
that will put an end to all these
sufferings presumably in the same breath
as you would say indiscriminate violence
the killing of civilians is wrong you
would also say the same about the
October the 7th attack in the south of
is by Hamas I told you we should not
really look at October 7th only there
what about the West Bank 92 Palestinian
lives have been lost and 92 Palestinians
have been killed by settlers by the Army
and Palestinians here in the West Bank
they didn't initiate anything all
Palestinians are under attack if we look
at October 7th as a starting point then
we miss seeing the picture then we miss
seeing the macro picture we we lose the
context yes but the incidents on their
own are also important and just as we
you know the world condemns the killing
of civilians in the Gaza Strip doesn't
the world also condemn don't you also
condemn The Killing killings of Israeli
civilians I have seen of course
International leaders queuing to support
Israel I I I saw very few of them
condemning the killing of innocent
people in Gaza so therefore look my dear
friend by all means who wants to see in
people killed I'm sure nobody does so
therefore in the same way that we want
to save the lives of our kids our
children our women our our ELD we want
to save the lives of everybody so I
don't see the event as an isolated event
I see things in totality the issue is
Palestinian people the issue is
Palestinian cause the issue is the
sufferings of the Palestinian people and
I just do wonder if you recognize that
what happened to Hamas attack is not
only a tragedy for Israelis but it's a
tragedy for the Palestinian cause as
well because it's in the outside world
it's shifted how people regard the
Palestinian cause it's not uh I mean I
have seen
demonstrations in the Streets of London
in the streets of Berlin in the streets
of Paris in Washington Chicago
everywhere people are fed up with this
situation people they want an end to
this miserable situation I know of
course two wrongs don't make a virtue
but the situation is what is the virtue
The Virtue is actually that we reach a
solution that is the most important
thing I'd like to just go back to last
week and the terrible explosion Blast at
the alahi hospital in
Gaza the US Israel some media
organizations have said they believe
that or you know they have proof that it
was um a misfired Palestinian rocket
others feel differently I wonder do you
feel like you have a duty to say to your
people let's wait to understand the
facts and you know let's let's listen to
what the truth might be about that
particular blast we know what the truth
is Islamic Jihad does not have the
technical capacity in one single missile
to kill 500 people that is not the case
only Israel that has the military
capabilities to do that and if you want
to buy the story of the other side of
the Israelis look Israel has been
spreading so many lies I am not
defending any situation I am saying that
we have to get facts right I am saying
that we have to avoid fake news there's
different opinions and that suggests
that you know as a Palestinian Authority
as a as a leadership you have to say we
don't know we you know that rage we must
listen you to tell me what to say you
want to you are suggesting to me and
answer I'm not going to answer the way
you want my dear friend I am not
defending any situation I am saying that
we have to get facts right is not this
sort of creating you uncertainty about
who did it is just simply not to allow
people to reach the truth the truth is
that Israel did it is it revealing a
crisis in the political leadership here
because it is encouraging people towards
more violence you can't completely
protect the the safety of your Civ
Millions you know we haven't had
elections in the West Bank in 16 years
this is a
crisis the question is how do you get
out of the crisis there is an
opportunity today that while Israel is
also in a
crisis and that we are in difficult
times that there is a need to sit down
and in the conflict so out of this
crisis one has to make an opportunity
and I think there is an opportunity the
problem is that there is no leadership
on the side of the Israelis who are
ready to sit down with us and settle the
account and settle the problem and end
of occupation and give the Palestinians
their rights my dear friend the
Palestinians have been in struggle the
Palestinians have been fighting in every
means and ways for the last 100 years it
is time for these people to enjoy their
right it is time for these people to
live with dignity it is time for these
people to live in a sever and viable
contiguous state of Palestine on the
borders of 6 67 with Jerusalem as its
capital and the right of refugees to go
back to their homes otherwise the
conflict will continue the Palestinians
are not going to surrender if Hamas was
brought down in Gaza would the
Palestinian Authority accept the
invitation to try and form some form of
government
there we're not waiting for an
invitation by
anybody the Palestinian Authority palesa
leadership will not go to Gaza on an
Israeli military tank to your audience
the Palestinians live under military
occupation that should end and therefore
any solution any thinking of the day
after does not solve the Gaza problem
alone does not solve the West Bank
problem alone it has to solve the
Palestinian
problem the Palestinian prime minister
we joining me now from Tel Aviv is Alan
leevy the spokes person for the Israeli
government thank you very much for
joining us if I can just uh find out
from you what is the position tonight
about the ground offensive are we close
to it are we not close to it what's
happening uh thank you for having me on
the show Kirsty first before I answer
that I would like to respond and say I
was truly appalled to listen to that
interview with the Palestinian prime
minister now he was questioned three
times pressed no fewer than three times
by your reporter whether he would
condemn the October 7th Massacre the
worst terror attack in world history
since 9911 brutally murdered 1,400
people and three times he refused to
condemn that attack in fact he said that
the Palestinian struggle against Israel
has been going on for a hundred years 25
years before the state of Israel was
even established and long before the 67
56 I think 56 years was the what was the
number of years said 100 he said 100
years he said 100 years but but I'm
going to go on and ask you a little bit
later uh about whether or not there's
going to be a position where anyone will
sit down with each other future but I
just want to get up to speed on what is
happening now why is there a hold up in
the ground
Invasion Israel is United now around a
single goal and that goal is total
Victory against Hamas in response to the
October 7th Massacre now when the next
stage of the Israeli operation is going
to continue I'm not going to speculate
on the movement of the troops that's
going to happen in accordance with our
operational needs but the response to
the October 7th Massacre that brutal
murder of 1,400 people whole families
burned in their homes children who are
cuffed families that were shot dead
tortured mutilated the response is going
to be the the total defeat of the terror
organization that conducted that but I
wonder if I wonder if the hostages I
wonder if the hostages are a factor or
not because when we have done interviews
it seems that that when the ground
Invasion starts if the hostages are
there so be it they may lose their lives
is that true Israeli Society at the
moment is sick with worry about the fate
of the hostages over 220 innocent men
women children who are being held
hostage by Hamas one of them is Ohad
this is Ohad he's 9 years old yesterday
was his ninth birthday he's the hostage
of Hamas two weeks ago he was visiting
his grandparents on the kibuts of NE o
when Hamas death squads invaded in the
morning they brutally murdered his uncle
and they took him together with his
grandparents Abraham and ruy both aged
78 and with his mother Karen into
captivity as hostages into the Gaza
Strip here he is with his parents his
father AI is sick with worry he doesn't
know whether Hamas stole his son's
glasses whether he saw dead bodies he
says he's taking sleeping pills every
night to try to sleep and he wakes up in
the morning and he feels guilty that he
wasn't thinking about them this is this
this is it is the most terrible conflict
and you you highlighted the plight of
that little boy but the truth and there
is no excuse but the truth is but the
truth is that no matter what children
everywhere are suffering children are
suffering in Gaza as well this is this
is this is a terrible situation
where and you would you would accept can
I just can I just ask you this that you
would accept that the children in Gaza
who have died and have been wounded by
the Israelis air strikes did not deserve
to die you accept that the humanitarian
suffering that we're seeing in response
to hamas's decision to declare war
against Israel on October 7th is truly
heartbreaking and I wish we weren't in
this situation and no one were getting
hurt this isn't a war that Israel
started it's not a war that Israel
wanted it's not a war that Israel even
expected off but what happens but what
happens is there was no Aid in today now
that affects children as well you need
to put fuel in so that the aquafers can
provide fresh water water is a human
right so how so therefore how does it
how does it help pure cause to make sure
that children don't get the medicine
never mind adults but ordinary
Palestinian is that children don't get
the medicine they need that children
don't get food that children don't get
water is that any way in a sense to
conduct this
conflict so let's set the record
straight first of all Aid is entering
the Gaza through the border with Egypt
not there was a consignment of trucks
and we're hopeful that will continue but
since you mentioned fuel it's important
to know that Hamas holds 500,000 lers of
fuel in the Gaza Strip right now I don't
know whether that includes the 24,000
lers of fuel that it stole from onra
from the the United Nations just a few
days ago but there is plenty of fuel in
the Gaza Strip the problem of course is
that the terror regime that controls the
Gaza Strip that conducted the October
7th Massacre is choosing to hog that
fuel in order to conduct order to
continue its war against Israel the fuel
is there fuel there plenty of it we're
very short time I want to ask you one
very uh short actually final question
what the Palestinian prime minister said
was that there's no leadership in Israel
ready to sit down is there a chance of
peace and peace talks between the
Palestinians and the
Israelis pery I very much hope that one
day we will be able to have peace in
this land but for now we have to destroy
Hamas we have to defeat the terror
organization that perpetrated the
October 7th Massacre because Israel
cannot go back to the conditions on the
sixth of October on the 7th of October
that cannot happen that would leave
Hamas free to Butcher and behead and
burn again thank you no way Israel can
afford that thank you much